In this video, we're
going to continue
looking at doing
calculations with dates,
but we're going to introduce
two really exciting
date functions,
the end of month (EOMONTH)
and the end date (EDATE).
So coming back to our
example in the last video,
we looked at how
we could calculate
the due date by just
adding six working days.
In reality, life is not
always that simple.
Very often invoice due
dates are calculated
from the start of
the next month or
exactly a month after.
So let's say that what
someone actually needs is to
calculate the due date
five working days
into the next month.
The function that can
help us with this,
is the end of month function.
It will be at the
end of the month,
after certain number
of months for
any given dates.
Let's have a look.
So clicking into E5,
we just type "=eo"
and select EOMONTH.
Now, we have to give it
a start date and
that's going to be
our invoice date
and then a comma.
Now, we can specify a certain
number of months before.
So for example, if I type minus
one that will give me the
last date in February,
if I add one that will give
me the last date in April,
but I actually want
the last date of the
end of this month.
So I'm just going to put a zero.
You can see, it gives
me the 31st of March.
Now, I've got the
end of the month.
All I need to do is add
my five working days on.
We already know
the function to do
that and that's our
WORKDAY function.
I'll just go back after the
equal sign type in WORKDAY.
So that's our start and we're
going to add five to that.
When I press Enter and copy down,
you can see in every case
it's giving me the
first working day,
five days into the next month
and that's our EOMONTH function.
Now, the other one that's really
handy is the EDATE function.
What this allows us to
do is add a number of
months or subtract a number
of months from a given date.
Let's have a look
at it very simply.
So in this situation,
our invoices are going to be due
exactly a month after
the invoice date.
I'm going to click into
E5 and type "=EDATE".
Again, we must give it
our start date which is our
invoice date and a comma.
Now again, we can add or
subtract a certain
number of months.
I want to add exactly one month.
That gives me exactly a
month after my invoice date.
When I copy it down, however,
we're back to our problem of
having Saturdays and Sundays.
So we still need
to convert this to
the next available work date.
There's, however, once
more restriction with
the WORKDAY function and
I'm going to demonstrate.
We only want to add a day
if it's a non-work day,
so I really want to add
zero days in this case.
The problem is if you
put zero as your value,
it does not affect
any of the dates.
So we have to add or subtract
at least one when working
with the WORKDAY function.
How do we get around
this? Well, simple.
We've got to put one on here.
So what we're going
to do is we're going
to subtract one from here first.
What that will do is
subtract one from
the EDATE calculation
and then add one.
If that's not a work day add
any others it needs to
make it a working day.
Let's see that work.
So you'll see this didn't change.
It is still the
second of the fourth.
When I copy down,
all the non-working days have now
been converted to work days.
So there's a little
bonus trick on
working with the
WORKDAY function.
So two functions we've
looked at in this video.
They are the end of
month and the end date.
This week we've looked at
a really great selection of
functions for working
with our dates.
To help get proficient in these,
I'd encourage you to try out
this week's practice challenge.